---
layout: post
title: donmcg.github.io notebook 
project: donmcg.github.io
author: donmc
date:   2025-10-21 01:00:00 -0700
---

{% comment %}
<head>
    <script type="text/javascript" async
      src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/mathjax/2.7.7/MathJax.js?config=TeX-MML-AM_CHTML">
    </script>
</head>
{% endcomment %}

# Notes for building donmc.github.io
Date of this post: {{ page.date | date: "%d %b %Y" }}

|[Published GitHub Site](https://donmcg.github.io) | [local site](http://localhost:4000) |

Continuing on the theme of adding chordpro pdf files
{% comment %}
as was started [post]({% post_url 2025-10-18-notebook.md %}).
{% endcomment %}

It's not arrangements, rather it's lead sheets:

---

> Home page
> 
> 1. stuff
> 2. music
>   - leadsheet
>     - lead sheets for trio
> 3. other stuff

---

Now I've learned that I can indeed cycle through the .pdf files 
in a way similar to */_includes/navigation.html*.

First the lead sheets can be enumerated in */_data/leadsheet.yml*.
Note that this is the only place that the file names of the
lead sheets have to be explicitly written.  Add it here and it will
appear...

{% highlight yaml %}
{% raw %}

- name: Old Blue
  title: a song about a good dog
  link: /assets/leadsheet/OldBlue.2.pdf
- name: Scotch And Soda
  title: a song about wistful love
  link: /assets/leadsheet/ScotchAndSoda.pdf
{% endraw %}
{% endhighlight %}

Then in */_includes/leadsheet.html*:

{% highlight html %}
{% raw %}
<ol>
  {% for sheet in site.data.leadsheet %}
	<li>
		<a href="{{ sheet.link }}" title="{{ sheet.title }}" >
			{{ sheet.name }} </a>
	</li>
  {% endfor %}

</ol>
{% endraw %}
{% endhighlight %}

Finally the file */_music/_leadsheet_.md* (note **layout: default**!):

{% highlight markdown %}
{% raw %}
---
layout: default
title: lead sheets for trio
date:   2025-10-21 01:00:00 -0700
binder:
  tome:  trio  # a single word common to all levels
  level: book # book | chapter | page : presentation level of this file.
  topics: [ leadsheet ]
  themes: [ ] # applies to chapter level
---

{% comment %}
Arrangements for a folk trio:

1. [ScotchAndSoda]({% link assets/leadsheet/ScotchAndSoda.pdf %})
1. [OldBlue]({% link assets/leadsheet/OldBlue.2.pdf %})
1. [SaltyDog]({% link assets/leadsheet/SaltyDog.1.pdf %})
1. [DogiesLament]({% link assets/leadsheet/DogiesLament.1.pdf %})
1. [Flatnose]({% link assets/leadsheet/Flatnose.1.pdf %})

{% endcomment %}

{% include navigation.html %}

---

&nbsp;

# Lead Sheets

{% include leadsheet.html %}

{% endraw %}
{% endhighlight %}


This is just a starting point.  The structure is subject to change
in the immediate future!

From here I just need to copy new pdf files to the *assets/file/* directory
and add the link in *_data/leadsheet.yml*. 

Note: That fat **{% comment %} ... {% endcomment %}** in the middle 
of *leadsheet_.md*, while apparently syntactically correct, causes 
a weird server warning:

{% highlight text %}
Warning: Excerpt modified in _music/leadsheet_.md!
         Found a Liquid block containing the excerpt separator "\n\n". 
         The block has been modified with the appropriate closing tag.
         Feel free to define a custom excerpt or excerpt_separator in the document's front matter if the generated excerpt is unsatisfactory.
{% endhighlight %}

Deleting the comment fixes the warning.

&nbsp;

---

&nbsp;

Now something that just caught my eye.

I've already got MathJax working:

$$ x = {-b \pm \sqrt{b^2-4ac} \over 2a}. $$

But now I have learned of something called Mermaid that is commonly used with MathJax.

Check this out:

<head>
    <script type="module">
      import mermaid from 'https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/mermaid@10/dist/mermaid.esm.min.mjs';
      mermaid.initialize({ startOnLoad: true });
    </script>
</head>

<pre class="mermaid">
    graph TD
        A[Client] --> B[Load Balancer]
        B --> C[Server01]
        B --> D[Server02]
</pre>

There is a boatload of other mermaid diagram possibilities!

(See the markdown of this post to see how the above diagram was rendered.)

---
&nbsp;
#### Some interesting links:

[MathJax and Mermaid](https://reflectivetechconsulting.com/jamstack-eleventy-custom/post-sample/mathjax-(mathematical-expressions)-and-mermaid-(graphs)/)

[Mermaid Cheat Sheet](https://jojozhuang.github.io/tutorial/mermaid-cheat-sheet/)
