---
layout: post
title: donmcg.github.io notebook 
project: donmcg.github.io
author: donmc
date:   2025-10-22 01:00:00 -0700
---

{% comment %}
<head>
    <script type="text/javascript" async
      src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/mathjax/2.7.7/MathJax.js?config=TeX-MML-AM_CHTML">
    </script>
</head>
{% endcomment %}

# Notes for building donmc.github.io
Date of this post: {{ page.date | date: "%d %b %Y" }}

|[Published GitHub Site](https://donmcg.github.io) | [local site](http://localhost:4000) |

Now working on the initial setup of the mini section.

Recall this [post]({% post_url 2025-10-08-notebook %}) regarding the 
desired topics and themes to cover.

---

> Home page
> 
> 1. stuff
> 2. mini
>      - historical
>          * history stuff
>      - maintenance
>          * maintenance stuff
>      - measurement
>          * measurement stuff
> 3. other stuff

---

Created */_mini/* directory and filled it with a set of documents reflecting
the above based on animal, vegetable, mineral precursors. Nothing new there.

One thing learned is to keep the *title:* names simple so that the
lists are not cluttered with repetition.

Now for the new thing.  As an example for the mini/measurement tome I'd
like to have a chapter that is a notebook blog.  i.e. *measurement-afr_blog.md*.

This is somewhat similar to how leadsheets are treated as described in this 
[post]({% post_url 2025-10-21-notebook %})

I've learned that I can indeed cycle through the leadsheet .pdf files 
as seen in */_includes/leadsheet.html*.  Can I do something similar
for chapter related blogs?

Hmm, the above required the *_data/leadsheet.yml* file accessed as

{% highlight liquid %}
{% raw %}
{% for sheet in site.data.leadsheet %}
{% endraw %}
{% endhighlight %}

But *blog/index.html* accesses posts as

{% highlight liquid %}
{% raw %}
{% for post in site.posts %}
{% endraw %}
{% endhighlight %}

So what's different?  I am not sure!!

Putting the following into *_mini/measurement-afr_blog.md* works!

{% highlight liquid %}
{% raw %}
Posts:

{% for post in site.posts %}
  <h4> {{ post.date }} {{ post.title }} </h4>
{% endfor %}

Mini:

{% for file in site.mini %}
  <h4> {{ file.date }} {{ file.title }} </h4>
{% endfor %}

{% endraw %}
{% endhighlight %}

The point being that the directories whose names begin with underscore
are made available.

{% highlight bash %}
$ cp -R _mini mini_foo
{% endhighlight %}

Putting the following into *_mini/measurement-afr_blog.md* does NOT work.

{% highlight liquid %}
{% raw %}
MiniFoo:

{% for file in site.mini_foo %}
  <h4> {{ file.date }} {{ file.title }} </h4>
{% endfor %}

{% endraw %}
{% endhighlight %}

This seems to confirm the underscore theory.  So where do I *want* to place
these chapter blogs?  Close to the chapter?

A quick test reveals that adding an additional directory *_mini/blog/...*
along with a corresponding *mini/blog* entry under *collections:* in
*_cofig.yml* DOES result in *_site/mini/blog/afr/files.html* being
created!  (good).  However it does NOT appear that these files
are accessible from *site.mini.blog* or *site.mini.blog.afr* directly.

Bottom line: Collections only work one level deep.

At first glance, categories is also not the desired tool.

# an idea:

Since jekyll *does* create the multilevel directory/.html set of files
then could one write a markdown file with hardcoded references
to those .html files?  And, if so, could a script read a .yml file
that directs the automatic writing of a chunk of include-able code
in a markdown file?

So (on localhost) just create directories (without underscore prefix)
in the collection directory and go as deep as you like.  Then
access them like the following example.  (These will break as actual
links once the file structure itself is changed.)

{% highlight liquid %}
{% raw %}
[Hardlink to collection file]( {{ site.url | append: "/mini/history_.html" }} )

[Hardlink depth 1 collection file]( {{ site.url | append: "/mini/blog/blog_.html" }} )

[Hardlink depth 2 collection file]( {{ site.url | append: "/mini/blog/afr/afr_.html" }} )
{% endraw %}
{% endhighlight %}

# Before investing much more energy into this, it needs to be tested at github.io

And indeed, before even pushing to github.io I find out that 
site.mini already cycles over all markdown files at all directory levels.
This is not what I expected. And is a pleasant surprise because I don't
need an external program to do the job.  In fact I can't stop jekyll
from doing the job!

But there is an issue:  my present front matter *binder* scheme is active 
at all levels.  So if a blog page has a theme set in its binder then
it will show up as a theme related file!  This is more than I want.

One 'fix' might be to add a *binder.level: blog* and then prevent *blog*
files from appearing anywhere except... in a blog list. 

Another 'fix' might be to have a separate top level _blog directory with
all blog structure below it.
Then the *binder* would have no real meaning there.

It is **likely** that I will want to add even more structure, and not just
blog pages, that I don't want to appear as a topic/theme, even though within the
file a topic/theme might be declared.  Previously I have been careful
to allow any markup file to declare *topics[]* and *themes[]* without respect
to *level*. Perhaps, rather than making *binder.level: blog* a special case
I should add *binder.show: false* to inhibit any file from listing
as a *topic* or *theme*.

# naah

I think I'll just add *binder.level: blog* and *binder.blog:* **folder** .

This will allow me to setup blogs that represent different **folder**s such
as *notebook* or just *blog*.

I hesitate to add *binder.page:* **sheet**.  (I already support
*binder.level: page*) as I don't yet have a use-case for it.


---
&nbsp;
#### Some interesting links:
