---
layout: post
title: donmcg.github.io notebook 
project: donmcg.github.io
author: donmc
date:   2025-10-12 01:00:00 -0700
---
<head>
    <script type="text/javascript" async
      src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/mathjax/2.7.7/MathJax.js?config=TeX-MML-AM_CHTML">
    </script>
</head>

# Notes for building donmc.github.io
Date of this post: {{ page.date | date: "%d %b %Y" }}

|[Published GitHub Site](https://donmcg.github.io) | [local site](http://localhost:4000) |

Further refinement of organization within a collection:

Each *COLLECTION* (_animal, _vegetable, _mineral) contains *binder*s
which present tome content at three different levels.  

- binder:
  * Unifies all components of a tome.
- tome:
  * The unique identifier for the binder.  All levels of a binder must
  have the same value of *tome:*.
- level:
  * Identifies the presentation level of the markdown file.
  * Provides additional hierarchy that is absent from jekyll.
  * The value of level may be one of 
    + **book** title is presented as a link under all *topics*
    + **chapter** title is presented as a link under all *themes*.
    + **page** freely linked to from within a *chapter*.
- book:
  * Organizes the binders into topics. 
  * A book provides a set of topics under which its title appears as a link.
  * A book may have chapters or pages, all identified by the binder.
- topics:
  * A list of headings for collecting links to books.
- chapter: 
  * Organizes the book into themes
  * A chapter provides a set of themes under which its title appears as a link.
  * A chapter may have links to pages, all identified by the binder.
- themes:
  * A list of headings for collecting links to chapters.
  * TODO: does it make sense for pages to be list-able under themes also?
  If so, then what is the difference between a chapter and a page?
  Said another way, is a page just a chapter with no themes?
- page:
  * Unorganized markdown file identified as a member of the binder.
  * A page is like an image or a .pdf file.  It's just content.

{% highlight liquid %}
Outline of front matter for binders:
{% raw %}
---
title: describes the tome at this level
binder:
  tome:  xyz  # a single word common to all levels in the tome 
  level: book | chapter | page # identifies presentation level of this file.
  topics: [ topic1, topic2, ... topicN ] # only applies to book level
  themes: [ theme1, theme2, ... themeN ] # only applies to chapter level
---
{% endraw %}
{% endhighlight %}

Suggested file naming conventions
- **_collectionQ/** jekyll imposed directory for the collection 'Q'
  * within the **_collectionQ** directory:
    + xyz_.md   # The one and only book level file for binder 'xyz'
    + xyz-chapterR.md # The file for binder 'xyz' chapter 'chapterR' 
    + xyz.pageS.md # The file for binder 'xyz' page 'pageS' 
  * This approach is taken so that *ls -1 _collectionQ* will sort
    all of the files in the collection in a nice order as sorted by underscore
    '**_**', hyphen '**-**', radix '**.**'.
    + all xyz binder files will appear together
    + the one and only book level file appears first (due to '**_**')
    + the chapter files appear next (due to '**-**')
    + the page files appear last (due to '**.**')

Conceptual example:
> 1. topic1
>   - xyz book title 
>     - xyz theme1 chapter title
>       - page1
>       - pageN
>     - xyz theme2 chapter title
>     - xyz themeN chapter title
>   - pqr book title 
>     - par theme1 chapter title
>   - abc book title 
>     - abc theme1 chapter title
>     - abc theme2 chapter title
>       - pageA
> 2. topic2
>   - pqr book title 
>     - par theme1 chapter title
> 3. topicN
>   - pqr book title 
>     - par theme1 chapter title
>   - abc book title 
>     - abc theme1 chapter title
>     - abc theme2 chapter title
>       - pageA

The repetition above is intentional because multiple binders can share
a common topic.  

TODO: Shall different chapters, in different binders, share themes?
For now no.  But a chapter can have multiple themes within the same binder.

In preparation for the implementation of above the following
commit is a working version of the book-chapter-page idea prior
to developing the binder concept:

{% highlight git %}
Outline of front matter for binders:
{% raw %}
$ git commit -a -m "first working book-chapter-page hierarchy"
[main 047cc56] first working book-chapter-page hierarchy
 17 files changed, 722 insertions(+), 16 deletions(-)
 create mode 100644 _includes/book_chapter_list.html
 delete mode 100644 _mineral/argon.md
 create mode 100644 _mineral/argon.mig_a.md
 create mode 100644 _mineral/argon.windows.page_a.md
 create mode 100644 _mineral/argon.windows_a.md
 create mode 100644 _mineral/argon_.md
 delete mode 100644 _mineral/gold.md
 create mode 100644 _mineral/gold.windows_a.md
 create mode 100644 _mineral/gold_.md
 delete mode 100644 _mineral/silicon.md
 create mode 100644 _mineral/silicon.windows_a.md
 create mode 100644 _mineral/silicon_.md
 create mode 100644 _posts/2025-10-08-notebook.md
 create mode 100644 _posts/2025-10-10-notebook.md
 create mode 100644 _posts/2025-10-12-notebook.md

commit 047cc566657e3a79a8c5dd180ab59d4b4b414c3e (HEAD -> main)
Author: donmc
Date:   Sun Oct 12 08:50:32 2025 -0700

    first working book-chapter-page hierarchy
{% endraw %}
{% endhighlight %}

---

I will want the library to start off showing something like
> 1. mini
>     - history
>     - measurement
>         * deluxe gas gauge
>         * bottom hose temperature
>         * knock sensor
>         * su needle position
>         * afr
>         * compression ratio
>         * fuel pressure
>     - equipment
>         * smoke generator
>         * can bus
>         * bipolar power supply
>     - maintenance
>         * oil
> 2. home
>     - furniture
>         * closet
>     - yard
>         * deck
>         * fence
>         * pool plumbing
>     - shop
>         * shelf
> 3. music
>     - arrangements
>       * scotch and soda


&nbsp;

---
&nbsp;
#### Some interesting links:
[Jekyll Front Matter](https://gurkhatech.com/jekyll-front-matter-yaml-power-explained/?srsltid=AfmBOoqiKUJCt0WFt-ppiXKjlrr-OIBUJKYWNTkMBaK7X5OEIr4O0pqu)<br>
