---
layout: post
title: donmcg.github.io notebook 
project: donmcg.github.io
author: donmc
date:   2025-10-08 01:00:00 -0700
---
<head>
    <script type="text/javascript" async
      src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/mathjax/2.7.7/MathJax.js?config=TeX-MML-AM_CHTML">
    </script>
</head>

# Notes for building donmc.github.io
Date of this post: {{ page.date | date: "%d %b %Y" }}

|[Published GitHub Site](https://donmcg.github.io) | [local site](http://localhost:4000) |

Moving on to building the real site.

I will want the library to start off showing something like
> 1. CATEGORY
>    - TOPIC
>      * PAGE
> 
> 1. mini
>     - history
>     - measurement
>         * deluxe gas gauge
>         * bottom hose temperature
>         * knock sensor
>         * su needle position
>         * afr
>         * compression ratio
>         * fuel pressure
>     - equipment
>         * smoke generator
>         * can bus
>         * bipolar power supply
>     - maintenance
>         * oil
> 2. home
>     - furniture
>         * closet
>     - yard
>         * deck
>         * fence
>         * pool plumbing
>     - shop
>         * shelf
> 3. music
>     - arrangements
>       * scotch and soda

<del>
Using the techniques I've developed so far the above might require
each files' *front matter* to declare its place in the hierarchy.
This could be made to work but it's a bit awkward.  Changing the hierarchy
would require editing all files affected by such a change.
</del>

Using the techniques I've developed so far allows for this level of
hierarchy.  A page like **su needle position** itself might need to
be a *table-of-contents*.

On the other hand it is a static site.  So the hierarchy must be fully
specified at the time that the site is built.  Hence no links to queries 
of the file system on the fly.

Another approach might be to have one file for each category that describe
the static hierarchy explicitly.  

For now I'll stick with what I've already done and see if I can achieve
the listing similar to what is shown above.


&nbsp;

---
&nbsp;
#### Some interesting links:
