---
layout: post
title: donmcg.github.io notebook 
tip: SparkFun CAN-Bus Shield
project: donmcg.github.io
author: donmc
date:   2026-01-21 01:00:00 -0700
---

# Notes for building donmc.github.io
Date of this post: {{ page.date | date: "%d %b %Y" }}

|[Published GitHub Site](https://donmcg.github.io) | [local site](http://localhost:4000) |


I am having success developing the
[Fairhillbillies SU Piston Position Sensor]({{ site.url | append: "/mini/project/su.piston.position/su.piston.position-fairhillbillies.html" }} )
and I'd like to begin sharing my work.

* I built a CAN prototype board some months ago and it's nearing
time to crank it up and see if I can get a SparkFun CAN-Bus shield to
work with it.

* Presented here is mostly revisiting my lab book dated late august 2025.

---
<br>

3 jan 2026 donmc

Notes regarding CAN-BUS utilizing SparkFun v.s. Seeed Shields

* The alternative is Seeed canbus products.  They seem to be more
oriented to grove expansion.  SparkFun appears to be better focused
on my use-case as I see it at the moment.  i.e. something that I
can get up and running that is controllable whilst driving.

* I have two different use-cases
  1. Broadcast 5-bit parallel tooth position on CAN bus
	2. Datalog all activity on CAN bus (sniffing)

	It's not entirely clear that I can/should do both of these with the
	same hardware.

	One scenario is a broadcast shield and a receiver shield:

	-The receiver is oriented to the logging requirement and so is better
	aligned with the SparkFun shield which supports the microSD card.
	But the extra bells and whistles consume the analog port (for joystick)
	and the data input is designed for the GPS module.

	-The broadcast is oriented at gathering input data and thus needs inputs!
	The 5 bit parallel tooth position data is much 'wider' than can be
	handled by SparkFun and perhaps better handled by the Seeed shield.
	Honestly, the more I dig into Seeed documents the less I like it.
	What I have been able to find is incomplete.

	Plus, I can probably use the SparkFun shield for both use cases.
	It will let me hijack A0-A5 for broadcasting.  And also gives me
	D5 and D4 (GPS) potentially for another input.  For the moment that's
	more than enough.

  A more painful, but cheaper? scenario is to design my own combined
	controller/can board(s). This is actually more in line with my 
	ultimate goal? (watch out for scope creep!).

	-> In the end I decided that I already have a can usb device
	and linux working for a makeshift logging function. So I
	reduced my scope here to a single SparkFun without the microSD.
	I can always buy more stuff later...

Components required.  Prices as quoted at DigiKey today.

1. Uno R3 PTH.  My preferred development platform allows me to easily
remove ATmega328.  I will use this instead of RedBoard. 
RedBoard mechanical advantages are of little interest to me.
   Arduino Uno R3 $27.60

2. SparkFun CAN-bus Shield (DEV-13262)  $35.95

3. MicroSD Card with adapter- 8GB (COM-11609)
   DigiKey does not list 8GB 11609
	         but does list 32GB COM-19401 $15.69

4. Serial Enabled 16x2 LCD (LCD-09393)
   -> 3-pin JST connector 5v, GND, Rx/D6
   DigiKey lists as obsolete
        Alternative is SparkFun Serial Enabled LCD Kit (LCD-10097) $24.95
				JST Jumper 3 Wire Assembly (PRT-09915)  $1.95@sf

5. Arduino Stackable Header Kit - R3 (PRT-11417) $2.75

6. X Joy Stick (included on can-bus shield?)

7. X Seeed can-bus shield $27.00

8. X CANDIY shield $15.40 (poorly documented)

9. DB9 connectors (the board is Male (pins), the Bus is Female(sockets))
    ZDE9S CONN D-SUB RCPT 9POS PNL MNT $3.70


21jan2026

I got items 2. and 5. from list above.  Now what?

  /Users/donmc/msi/projects/SUneedle/datasheet/electronic/uno/can/r3/canShieldSparkfun/SparkFunDocuments/

The CAN-Bus_Shield_HookupGuide.pdf seems a good place to start
but it turns out the web location is more up to date.
CAN-BUS Shield Hookup Guide - SparkFun Learn.webloc
Also consider GitHub - sparkfun-SparkFun_CAN-Bus_Arduino_Library.webloc

Following the web-based hookup guide:

1. Download CAN-Bus Shield Library (ZIP)

   -> ../Downloads/SparkFun_CAN-Bus_Arduino_Library-master

2. $ mv [above] ../app/arduino/...

   Then following installing-an-arduino-library "manually ... Mac"

3. right click on Arduino icon in Dock. Options > Show in Finder

   -> opens finder at the application folder

4. navigate ArduinoIDE.app

   right-click show-package-contents 

   \> Contents > Resources > Java > libraries

	 => no joy; Java does not exist

5. New approach.  Go to github
https://github.com/sparkfun/SparkFun_CAN-Bus_Arduino_Library

6. Code <> -> Download Zip

   -> this gave me the same SparkFun_CAN-Bus_Arduino_Library-master file
   move the zip to ..app/arduino

7. open Arduino IDE:  Sketch > Include Library > Add .ZIP Library

   => no joy

8. Extract the Zip library (it came that way)

9. Go to ../app/arduino/ Rename (get rid of _Arduino_Library-master)
hyphens not allowed, and change the CAN-Bus to CAN_Bus:

   -> SparkFun_CAN_Bus

10. Navigate to ~/donmc/Documents/Arduino/libraries/

11. Drag SparkFun_CAN_bus to ../libraries

12. Restart ArduinoIDE

13. Open a new sketch then Sketch > Include Library > SparkFun CAN-Bus

    -> this adds a bunch of CAN related header files to the sketch!

 Success!  I hope.

   -> Also I notice that Examples leads to the SparkFun CAN-Bus examples
	    mentioned on the web page.

----

/Users/donmc/msi/cars/mini/CANbus has some background

The tCAN structure holds the CAN ID for the message, data length, and data.

Key Concepts:

 * Message ID: A crucial part of a CAN message that tells other nodes what kind of data is inside (e.g., engine speed, door status).

 * Arbitration: Lower IDs have higher priority on the bus; if two nodes send at once, the one with the lower ID wins.
 * SparkFun Library: The SparkFun_CAN-Bus_Arduino_Library provides predefined IDs (like ENGINE_RPM 0x0C) and structures (like tCAN) to help you manage these.

How to Use IDs with SparkFun:
 1. Define Your Message Structure: You'll use the tCAN structure to hold your ID, data length, and data.
 2. Assign an ID: Choose an available 11-bit or 29-bit hexadecimal ID (e.g., 0x1A, 0x2B3C4D5E) for your specific data.
 3. Send the Message: Use functions like mcp2515_send_message() to transmit your structured message.

Example IDs (from SparkFun Library):

* ENGINE_COOLANT_TEMP (0x05)
* ENGINE_RPM (0x0C)
* VEHICLE_SPEED (0x0D)
* PID_REQUEST (0x7DF) 


on studio1 ~/msi/project/CAN/korlan/downloads/linux_can_examples

in notebook look at 24aug2025 for canbus exploits of the past.

For SparkFun shield needed to reconfigure jumpers for CAN instead of ODBII:

* SJ4, SJ5, SJ6 cut lands to ODBII routing,
* solder lands for CAN routing to DB9

---

<br>

#### Some interesting links:

[]()


