---
layout: post
title: donmcg.github.io notebook 
tip: BSF BSW and the Australia Post
project: donmcg.github.io
author: donmc
date:   2026-01-23 01:00:00 -0700
---
{% include mathjax.html %}

# Notes for building donmc.github.io
Date of this post: {{ page.date | date: "%d %b %Y" }}

|[Published GitHub Site](https://donmcg.github.io) | [local site](http://localhost:4000) |


I am having success developing the
[Fairhillbillies SU Piston Position Sensor]({{ site.url | append: "/mini/project/su.piston.position/su.piston.position-fairhillbillies.html" }} )
and I'd like to begin sharing my work.

* The HIF6 and HIF44 carburettors differ primarily in imperial vs metric
dimensions.  In my experience, HIF6 carbs are much more common in the
USA as the model used when these cars were imported into the late '60s.
They are certainly more common in my spares box.

* The guide key is affixed with a countersunk flat head screw (CSK).
For the HIF6 this screw is BSW (British Standard Whitworth)
1/8" - 40tpi x 1/2" with a split tip.
The HIF44 screw is supplied by Burlen as "Tri Taptite CSK Screw" M3X8MM.

* The BSW screw is held in place, once seated, by spreading the split
tip as if it were a cotter pin.  The metric screw is much shorter
and relies on the taptite threaded shank to bite and hold in place 
(seems a bit destructive!)

* The BSW screw also appears to have a $60^{\circ}$ Countersink Angle (CA)
while the metric screw is the modern $82^{\circ}$ angle.  This is a significant
difference and is not reasonably interchangeable.  A new guide key
would need to be different for each of these screws.

* The BSW screw is largely out of production worldwide, as far as I can tell.
There are a couple of specialty suppliers that carry similar alternatives.
One is located in Murarrie, Queensland Australia.  The BSW screws found
there are available as Stainless 316 and feature an $82^{\circ}$ CSK
head!  With care, this screw may be an alternative that allows
for a single new guide key design that will fit in both HIF6 and HIF44 carbs.

* At the time of this writing there rage international trade wars.
The shipping companies we know and love appear to charge a major
premium for AU to USA services.  The alternative that I found, which
was significantly more reasonable, was to create a free **MyPost Business**
account with Australia Post.  This allowed me to prepay expenses and tariffs 
and produce the required **CN23** shipping label.

---

<br>

#### Some interesting links:

[MyPost](https://auspost.com.au/receiving/mypost)


